# UPenn_Project2
This project was done by Hao Dong, Ana Stefanski, Michael McAneny-Binetsky, Vysh Nalluri, and Meredith Hopkins as part of the University of Pennsylvania Data Analytics Bootcamp. Data on bird sightings and data on ufo sightings were collected from Cornell's eBird API 2.0 and Kaggle, respectively. The data was cleaned and procesed with Pandas in Jupyter Lab before being loaded into both PostgreSQL and MongoDB for storage. 

The first step in this project was to extract data. The group decided to find data on UFO sightings and data on bird sightings. The UFO sightings data was sourced from Kaggle and downloaded as a CSV. Obtaining the bird sightings data was a more complex process. Due to the volume of data available through the eBird API, at this stage in the project the group decided to restrict the data to a single US state - California - and the years 2003 to 2013. This API only allows date specific data to be drawn in two ways; 1) By selecting up to the last 30 days of data or; 2) Selecting data from a single date. Because we wanted data from a specific timeframe from 2003 to 2013 we created a nested loop that runs through all the dates in a given year, checks if there is any data, and stores the data if there is any in a list, and create a dataframe out of that. Then we transpose the dataframe, change the column names, and save it to a csv. This is done for each year of our data. From there, we merge all our data together, split our Date column into a date and time column, and convert our date into a datetime data type before saving that new dataframe into a csv.
